{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Newton first law of motion states that once an object is in motion, it tends to remain in motion unless it is acted upon by an outside force. This theory fits well with what Buffett calls \'93the institutional imperative.\'94 By this he means that once a course of action has been decided, it is very difficult to fight inertia and get off that track. For example, if a firm\'92s CEO decides that the company should make an acquisition and has expressed a high level of interest in one company in particular, you can almost bet his subordinates will produce numbers supporting his theory on why that company should be purchased. Something akin to this also occurs when one firm in an industry purchases a company of a certain type, and then other firms scramble to purchase similar companies.\
\'93For every action there is an equal and opposite reaction\'94 nicely sums up Newton\'92s third law of motion. This ties in well with understand the market, as it is a complex system and reacts to stimuli in the same manner. For instance, when a financial crisis occurs, many individuals will panic and submit sell orders to their brokers, causing stocks to fall to a point where other investors will step in to purchase a now undervalued security.\
You may not have heard of Newton\'92s \'93fourth\'94 law of motion before; Buffett describes it eloquently (and hilariously) in his 2005 letter to shareholders:\
Long ago, Sir Isaac Newton gave us three laws of motion, which were the work of genius. But Sir Isaac\'92s talents didn\'92t extend to investing: He lost a bundle in the South Sea Bubble, explaining later, \'93I can calculate the movement of the stars, but not the madness of men.\'94 If he had not been traumatized by this loss, Sir Isaac might well have gone on to discover the Fourth Law of Motion: For investors as a whole, returns decrease as motion increases.36\
The fourth law is evident in a study conducted by Brian Bushee, a professor at Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He split the institutional investing community into three classifications: transient, dedicated and quasi-indexers. Bushee found that 31% of institutional shareholders were \'93transient investors,\'94 8% were \'93dedicated\'94 investors and 61% were \'93quasi-indexers.\'94\
\'93Transient\'94 institutional investors hold well-diversified portfolios of publicly traded securities; they pursue short-term profits through high turnover of their portfolios and heavy use of momentum trading.\
\'93Dedicated\'94 institutional investors have substantial investments in a relatively small number of portfolio companies; they hold a high percentage (often more than 75%) of their portfolio shares for two years or more.\
\'93Quasi-indexers\'94 fall between the two other categories of institutional investors; they have highly diversified portfolios of publicly traded securities and also a high degree of ownership continuity since they seldom trade.\
37\
Liquidity is so high and trading costs so low that a full 31% of investors totally ignore Newton\'92s/Buffett\'92s fourth law of motion!}