{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Focus investors must question conventional investment wisdom in order to find breakdowns in investment logic.\
\
\
\'91Ultra-simple general notions\'92: Munger\
Here is a list of four \'93ultra-simple general notions\'94 that Munger provided in a 1996 speech. These notions tie into the mental framework that you will be learning about in this chapter. Following each you will find a brief commentary on why they are important to the study of the investing process:\
1Solve the big, no-brainer questions first.\
This relates to an idea we have previously mentioned: circle of competence. When you first examine a potential investment, ask yourself if you understand the nature of the business thoroughly. If the answer is no, spend more time studying the business until you do\'97or move on to the next opportunity.\
2Math is important, but it also can be dangerous.\
Math is the basic building block of the universe. Its principles are vital to understanding such powerful investing concepts as compound interest and present value. Remember, however, that numbers have limitations. An unhealthy reliance on math can lull you into believing that markets are logical and precise in their movements. What is more, the value of a company\'92s intangible assets\'97management, brand recognition, etc.\'97cannot be so easily quantified.\
3Think through a problem backward, not just forward.\
This is also known as inverting. Remember, focus investors don\'92t search for information that confirms what they already believe. They also search for information that contradicts their views on a particular subject.\
4Properly consider results from a combination of frameworks or lollapalooza effects.\
Often a truly great company will benefit from several forces that, together, give it a tailwind. Another word for this phenomenon is synergism (the whole is greater than the sum of its parts). For example, Verisk Analytics, a service provider to the property and casualty insurance industry, has been able to increase its business opportunities on the back of a steady decrease in both the cost of computing power and storage.27\
These notions form a useful outline to help you develop a solid mental framework for investing, drawing from various disciplines in order to develop better decision-making skills.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}