{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Experimenting\
\'95 (1) Scienti c Method\'97\'93Systematic observation, measurement, and experiment, and the formulation, testing, and modi cation of hypotheses.\'94 (related: reproducibility)\
\'95 (1) Proxy\'97\'93A variable that is not in itself directly relevant, but that serves in place of an unobservable or immeasurable variable. In order for a variable to be a good proxy, it must have a close correlation, not necessarily linear, with the variable of interest.\'94 (related: revealed preference; Proxy War\'97\'93A con ict between two nations where neither country directly engages the other.\'94)\
\'95 (1) Selection Bias\'97\'93The selection of individuals, groups or data for analysis in such a way that proper randomization is not achieved, thereby ensuring that the sample obtained is not representative of the population intended to be analyzed.\'94 (related: sampling bias)\
\'95 (1) Response Bias\'97\'93A wide range of cognitive biases that in uence the responses of participants away from an accurate or truthful response.\'94\
\'95 (2) Observer E ect\'97\'93Changes that the act of observation will make on a phenomenon being observed.\'94 (related: Schr\'f6dinger\'92s cat)                 \
\'95 (2) Survivorship Bias\'97\'93The logical error of concentrating on the people or things that \'91survived\'92 some process and inadvertently overlooking those that did not because of their lack of visibility.\'94\
}