{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 What it is\
Surfing occurs when companies are propelled forward by a wave of innovation that provides or significantly improves an essential product or service. Companies that emerge early in the formation of these waves can \'93ride\'94 their way to many years of above-average growth and profits.\
How it relates to investing\
Today, one huge wave, both for entrepreneurs and investors, is dealing with the vast amount of data that companies generate in the normal course of business. Verisk Analytics serves the insurance industry by taking advantage of being able to transform and analyze large amounts of data provided to it by individual insurance companies. IBM has a large business analytics division that is set to take a large share of the data management and analysis market. Both are riding a data wave that is constantly growing due to the decreasing costs of computing power and data storage.\
National Cash Register (NCR) is another company that has been able to ride a wave of innovation to great success. When its founder, Dayton, Ohio, businessman John H. Patterson, purchased an early cash register he immediately grasped the transformational effect it would have on the retail industry. He realized these machines would make it much easier for store owners to prevent employee theft. Seizing the opportunity, Patterson left retail and went into the cash register business. One of his early innovations was to develop a sales force to educate potential customers. He even created a mock-up of a store that sales personnel could use to highlight the benefits of cash registers to store owners. The approach was a resounding success. Between 1893 and 1911, the company sold more than a million machines!\
Image\
Be observant. Look for large, emerging themes all around you \'85\
Image\
\
What to do\
Be observant. Look for large, emerging themes all around you, especially when reading nonfiction books and industry trade magazines. Even a medical condition can be a door to opportunity! Having been diagnosed with sleep apnea, I was searching for devices to help with my breathing at night. My search led me to ResMed, a global manufacturer of products that treat sleep disorders. Today, not only do I use one of its devices, I am a shareholder! ResMed has been riding the healthcare wave for well over two decades now\'97with no \'93crashing surf\'94 in sight.}