{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Standard deviation tells statisticians how far apart the values in a data set are from one another. A large standard deviation means that the values in the data set being observed are fairly diverse, while a small standard deviation indicates a more concentrated set of values. This is an important concept for all focus investors.\
Standard deviation is often called the \'93mean of the mean\'94 and can help an investor find the true story behind a series of numbers. To fully understand this concept it is necessary to explain what statisticians call normal distribution.\
When statisticians say their data show a normal distribution, they mean that most of the values in their data set are close to the average of the series, with only a small set of values far below or far above the mean.\
Let\'92s imagine that a statistician is researching the sleeping habits of adult males. She would need to examine and record the normal sleeping habits of a large group of adult males to establish the data set. Plotting the values on a graph, chances are she will find that the average time adult males spend sleeping per night will be normally distributed. That is, for most adult men, their nightly sleeping habits are closely aligned to the median sleeping habits of adult males in general, with only a small number sleeping longer or shorter than the average of the overall group.\
This 1889 quote by Sir Francis Galton, a pioneer of statistical correlation and regression, describes the macro view of normal distribution: \'93Whenever a large sample of chaotic elements are taken in hand and marshaled in the order of their magnitude, an unsuspected and most beautiful form of regularity proves to have been latent all along.\'9440\
If a set of normally distributed data was presented graphically, it would resemble the ubiquitous bell curve we discussed earlier in this chapter. When the standard deviations in a data set are tightly bunched together, the bell shape has steep curves and, conversely, the bell shape flattens out when the standard deviations are less concentrated. In investing, standard deviation is often considered a synonym for volatility, which, in turn, is used as a proxy for risk. Most focus investors sharply disagree with this model. The subject will be discussed in greater detail in the coming pages.}