{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red234\green234\blue234;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c93333\c93333\c93333;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs55\fsmilli27648 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Accounting is the language in which business results are reported. The ability to understand this language is an integral part of every investor\'92s toolkit. I recommend that focus investors have at least some training in accounting, whether in a classroom, online or from a high-quality book on the subject (see two suggestions below).\cb1 \
\cb3 Having a basic understanding of 
\i generally accepted accounting principles
\i0  (GAAP), the method accountants commonly use to prepare financial statements, is not enough for practitioners of focus investing. GAAP is a flexible system and, as such, allows company managers a certain amount of leeway in how they report their financial results. This flexibility is dangerous, as management can \'93play\'94 the system to show better-than-actual results.\cb1 \
\cb3 This subject of accounting is far too broad in scope to cover adequately in this book. To learn more about accounting red flags and pitfalls, I recommend 
\i Guide to Financial Reporting and Analysis
\i0  by Eugene E. Comiskey and Charles W. Mulford, as well as 
\i Financial Shenanigans
\i0  (2nd Edition) by Howard M. Schilit.}