{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red234\green234\blue234;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c93333\c93333\c93333;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\fs71\fsmilli35712 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What it is
\i0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs55\fsmilli27648 \cf2 \cb3 A lollapalooza effect occurs when several network models are combined and implemented to produce a desired result. The often synergistic results of this combined impact can be quite dramatic.\cb1 \
\cb3 For example, in order to combat the HIV virus, a three-drug \'93cocktail\'94 was developed. While the individual drugs weren\'92t effective, the combination of several medications was extremely successful. Another example of a lollapalooza effect can be seen in open-outcry auctions. These auctions involve buyers and sellers grouped together around an auctioneer who initiates the bidding process. The participants then attempt to outbid one other to win the item being auctioned. Charlie Munger summed up the effects in this way:\cb1 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 [T]he open-outcry auction is just made to turn the brain into mush: You\'92ve got social proof, the other guy is bidding, you get reciprocation tendency, you get deprival super-reaction syndrome, the thing is going away \'85 I mean it just absolutely is designed to manipulate people into idiotic behavior.
\fs41\fsmilli20736 \cf2 \cb3 \super \ul \ulc2 116
\fs55\fsmilli27648 \cf2 \cb1 \nosupersub \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\i\fs71\fsmilli35712 \cf2 \cb3 How it relates to investing
\i0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs55\fsmilli27648 \cf2 \cb3 The key to understanding and creating lollapalooza effects is being able to understand how various models relate to one another. Once these relationships are understood, the next step is to build an understanding of what effect the combination will have on a given situation. For example, Ansys, a technology firm creating software that simulates product performance in a virtual environment, has been experiencing a lollapalooza effect caused by the decreased cost of computing power and the increasing acceptance of the cost benefits its technology provides to its customers.\cb1 \
\cb3 In investing, the biggest lollapalooza effect occurs when you find a high-quality company selling for below your estimate of its intrinsic value, and led by a management team that understands capital allocation. Henry Singleton of Teledyne is a good example. Between 1961 and 1969 he made 130 acquisitions at attractive prices. After that period, however, acquisitions became less appealing, and his company\'92s stock price declined. He then switched course, tendering eight offers from 1972 to 1984 to repurchase shares in his company. This allowed him to buy back 90% of his stock! Singleton\'92s capital allocation strategy\'97purchasing undervalued companies, then buying back his own undervalued stock\'97created a nearly ninefold outperformance of other conglomerates during that period and more than a twelvefold outperformance of the S&P 500.
\fs41\fsmilli20736 \cf2 \cb3 \super \ul \ulc2 117
\fs55\fsmilli27648 \cf2 \cb3 \nosupersub \ulnone  Now 
\i that
\i0  is a lollapalooza effect!\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\i\fs71\fsmilli35712 \cf2 \cb3 What to do
\i0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs55\fsmilli27648 \cf2 \cb3 Think hard about the possible future directions of the companies you are examining and determine how current waves of change could build on themselves to produce lollapalooza effects. ResMed, the sleep apnea device manufacturer mentioned earlier, is a good example to consider. With an aging population, increasing obesity (and apnea) rates around the world, and products that are both safe and effective, it is no wonder this company is enjoying success. Multiple factors working in unison can produce amazing results!\cb1 \
\
\
\
\cb3 NOTE: Virtually all of the aforementioned effects apply to the stock market when investments are made during both bull and bear periods. Superior results can be found in industries where destructive pricing behavior is absent. A company in an industry with this characteristic might well have above average financial results. If the company were also in an industry that is riding a long-term wave (surfing), then its results could grow for a substantial length of time. The more of these factors that are present, the more likely the company is worth watching as a potential future investment.}