{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Mathematics\
It is critical that you have at least an understanding of high school-level mathematics. Compound interest, the time value of money and the basic ideas of probability theory, for example, are all vital concepts that investors should understand. If you fail to add these to your repertoire, you will be at a severe disadvantage.\
\
\
\
But mathematical models also have limitations. I think that many new investors, especially those fresh from their M.B.A. classes, lean far too heavily on the outputs of those models and don\'92t take enough time to really develop a deep understanding of the company itself. It is equally dangerous to use mathematical models when determining a company\'92s value. Numbers can be manipulated so that they produce results in line with what you want to see. These temptations must be resisted! In the article \'93The New Speculation in Common Stocks,\'94 Benjamin Graham himself says that \'93\'85 in 44 years of Wall Street experience and study I have never seen dependable calculations made about common stock values, or related investment policies, that went beyond simple arithmetic or the most elementary algebra.\'9430\
In her book Dear Mr. Buffett, Janet Tavakoli relates just how much Buffett enjoys capitalizing on these mathematical mistakes:\
Warren takes advantage of the fact that many Wall Street derivatives traders construct trading models with no clear idea of what they are doing. I know investment bank modelers with advanced math and science degrees who have never [emphasis added] read the financial statements of the corporate credits they model. Modelers manipulate a large body of data, without knowing how to interpret the results.\
Warren maintains that long dated (15- or 20-year maturity) equity index puts on the FTSE and the Dow, among other indexes, are mispriced. Investment banks price the options based on volatility, irrespective of the absolute level of the indexes.31}