{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Darwin developed the theory of natural selection by carefully observing wildlife during his travels aboard the HMS Beagle. While visiting the Galapagos Islands in 1835, he observed that each island supported its own variety of tortoise, mockingbird and finch. He further observed that the various individual species, though closely related, differed in structure and eating habits from one island to the next. These observations caused Darwin to ask if there were, in fact, possible links between the similar species.\
After discussing with other scientists why and how the species on the islands were so similar, he developed a theory that evolution produces variations over time that favor some species (and certain varieties within species) over others. These variations and their resulting benefits are passed on to succeeding generations, thus increasing the likelihood of survival.\
Natural selection is the most important biological concept for the focus investor to understand. Robert Hagstrom, in his book Latticework: The New Investing, explains it well when he writes, \'93Whereas in nature the process of evolution is one of natural selection, seeing the market with an evolutionary framework allows us to observe the law of economic selection.\'9439\
This law of economic selection is readily observable in the business world. For example, one firm may develop a unique way of producing a product in a less expensive manner, which allows it to generate higher profits than other firms in the same line of business that are not employing this new process. As a result, the firm using the less expensive procedure should sell for a higher price/earnings (P/E) ratio than its competitors. The price (P) of the company stock divided by its earnings (E) is how this is calculated.}