{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 What it is\
Social proof occurs when an individual observes other people\'92s behavior and assumes they are acting appropriately in whatever they are doing. This is a natural extension of how we learn throughout our lifetime. For example, an infant learns by watching how his or her parents perform activities, then copying their behavior.\
How it relates to investing\
This learning style can cause problems for investors because the opinions and behavior of the crowd can be (and often are) dead wrong. A well-known experiment conducted in 1935 involved individuals who were taken into a dark room one at a time and asked how much a beam of light was moving. (In reality, the beam of light was not moving at all but, due to the autokinetic effect, it did appear to move.) After their estimates of the movement range were recorded, they were placed into groups and the experiment was repeated. Although the single subjects had recorded varying movement ranges, once they were in a group, they came to a common conclusion.\
You don\'92t have to look very far to see how this relates to investing. Just turn on your TV or go online! Bloomberg and CNBC bombard viewers around the clock with market pundits and talking heads commenting on the direction they think the market is heading\'97or what funds or stocks they think are worth investing in at the moment. And, because of their high visibility and reputation as authorities in the business world, many people believe them. Focus investors, however, know better than to take what they see and hear in the media at face value and wouldn\'92t think of investing in these word-of-mouth situations without first doing their own careful research (also known as due diligence).\
Social proof is related to manias and panics. In these situations, the first movers into the investment \'93theme\'94 often have well-thought-out positions and are able to make purchases at reasonable prices. As time passes, however, and more people see the lucrative results and want to replicate them, trading tends to become frenzied, with less attention paid to valuation. This, as we have seen, often leads to poor performance\'97or, quite possibly, disaster! Once again, the business media reinforce these themes by continually parading talking heads on shows that proclaim why the market, or a specific company, is either undervalued or overvalued, depending on their viewpoint, which is almost always short-term in nature.\
What to do\
Don\'92t be a lemming! Always question the wisdom of the crowd; it can make big mistakes. Think about the possible motivations of the people being interviewed online or on television. Are they promoting bonds because they manage a bond fund? What\'92s in it for them? Think for yourself, and don\'92t be lulled into practicing mindless, reflexive behavior just because it\'92s what \'93everyone\'94 is doing.\
\
}