{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red234\green234\blue234;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c93333\c93333\c93333;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs55\fsmilli27648 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The 
\i time value of money
\i0  means simply that money on hand now is worth more than money to be received in the future. Do you remember the old saying, \'93A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush\'94? For an investor, a dollar in hand is usually worth more today because it can be invested and earn interest going forward. The \'93time value of money\'94 concept is an important one to understand because the value of any business is simply the amount of cash it can generate over its lifetime, discounted back to the present day. This topic will be discussed in greater detail in Chapter 6.\cb1 \
\
\
\
\cb3 As with most maxims, though, there are situations where blindly following them is not a wise course of action. The investment process is an opportunistic one, and investors should always have cash on hand in order to take advantage of any mispricings in the market. An important lesson for investors to learn is that sometimes they have to forgo immediate gains as a strategy for earning much larger returns in the future.\cb1 \
\cb3 Two important concepts are tied to the time value of money. The first is 
\i present value,
\i0  or what a future sum of cash flows would be worth today. The other concept, 
\i future value,
\i0  is what an initial cash investment would be worth in the future given a particular interest rate.\cb1 \
\cb3 Present value is a key concept in investing. To value a company, investors discount back to the present time all of a company\'92s expected future cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. Applying the same discount rate to all companies being examined should help the investor find a common reference point of valuation.\cb1 \
\cb3 The formula for calculating the present value of future cash flows in a given year is CF
\fs41\fsmilli20736 \cf2 \cb3 \sub n
\fs55\fsmilli27648 \cf2 \cb3 \nosupersub / (1 + R)
\fs41\fsmilli20736 \cf2 \cb3 \super n
\fs55\fsmilli27648 \cf2 \cb3 \nosupersub . In other words, it is the amount of cash flow (CF) in year 
\i n
\i0  divided by the sum of 1 plus the discount rate (R) to the 
\i n
\i0  power. If you want to find the present value of $1,000 assuming an 8% discount rate in Year 2, use the formula: $1,000 / (1.08)
\fs41\fsmilli20736 \cf2 \cb3 \super 2
\fs55\fsmilli27648 \cf2 \cb3 \nosupersub  = $1,000 / 1.17 = $854.70. This will be discussed in depth in Chapter 6, which focuses on valuation.}