# 2技术与进步类
070 Some people think that the automobile has improved modern life. Others think that the automobile has caused serious problems. What is your opinion? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
178 The 21st century has begun. What changes do you think this new century will bring? Use examples and details in your answer.
084 Some people say that the Internet provides people with a lot of valuable information. Others think access to so much information creates problems. Which view do you agree with? Use specific reasons and examples to support your opinion.
088 Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Telephones and email have made communication between people less personal. Use specific reasons and examples to support your opinion.
036 Choose one of the following transportation vehicles and explain why you think it has changed people's lives. * Automobiles * bicycles * airplanes Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
039 Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? With the help of technology, students nowadays can learn more information and learn it more quickly. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
083 Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Modern technology is creating a single world culture. Use specific reasons and examples to support your opinion.
037 Do you agree or disagree that progress is always good? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
178 The 21st century has begun. What changes do you think this new century will bring? Use examples and details in your answer.
081 Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Technology has made the world a better place to live. Use specific reasons and examples to support your opinion.
104 When you write your answer, you are not limited to the examples listed in the question. It is generally agreed that society benefits from the work of its members. Compare the contributions of artists to society with the contributions of scientists to society. Which type of contribution do you think is valued more by your society? Give specific reasons to support your answer.
132 If you could invent something new, what product would you develop? Use specific details to explain why this invention is needed.


