{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset134 PingFangSC-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 CHAPTER 1\
What makes for a dream job?\
\
Rather, you can develop passion while doing work that you will find enjoyable and meaningful. The key is to get good at something that helps other people.\
\
Where we go wrong\
In the last few decades, research in psychology has shown that this is common: we\'a1\'afre bad at predicting what will make us most happy, and we don\'a1\'aft even realize how bad we are. You can find an excellent overview of this research in Stumbling Upon Happiness, by Harvard Professor Dan Gilbert.\
\
Two overrated goals for a fulfilling career\
The average college graduate in the United States earns $68,000 per year over his or her life, while the average Ivy League graduate earns over $100,000. [10] The upshot is that if you\'a1\'afre a college graduate in the US (or a similar country), you\'a1\'afll likely end up well into the range where more income has almost no effect on your happiness. [11]\
\
One puzzle is that studies of high-ranking government and military leaders found they had lower levels of stress hormones and less anxiety, despite sleeping fewer hours, managing more people and having greater demands placed on them.\
One widely supported explanation is that having a greater sense of control \'a8\'43 by setting their own schedules and determining how to tackle the challenges they face \'a8\'43 protects them against the demands of the position.\
\
\
What should you aim for in a dream job?\
1. Work that\'a1\'afs engaging\
Engaging work is work that draws you in, holds your attention, and gives you a sense of flow. It\'a1\'afs the reason an hour spent editing a spreadsheet can feel like pure drudgery, while an hour playing a computer game can feel like no time at all: computer games are designed to be as engaging as possible.\
Researchers have identified four factors:\

\b The freedom to decide how to perform your work.\
Clear tasks, with a clearly defined start and end.\
Variety in the types of task.\
Feedback, so you know how well you\'a1\'afre doing.
\b0 \
\
2. Work that helps others\
None of these studies by themselves are decisive, but they form a body of evidence. Helping others isn\'a1\'aft the only route to a meaningful career, but it\'a1\'afs widely accepted by researchers that it\'a1\'afs one of the most powerful.\
\
3. Work you\'a1\'afre good at\
Being good at your work gives you a sense of achievement, one of the five ingredients of life satisfaction mentioned above.\
It also gives you the power to negotiate for the other components of a fulfilling job, such as the ability to work on meaningful projects, undertake engaging tasks and earn fair pay. If people value your contribution, you can ask for these conditions in return.\
\
\
4. Work with supportive colleagues\
5. Lack of major negatives\
To be satisfied, everything above is important. But you also need the absence of things that make work unpleasant. All of the following tend to be linked to job dissatisfaction.\

\b A long commute, especially if it\'a1\'afs over an hour by bus.\
Very long hours.\
Pay you feel is unfair.\
Job insecurity.\

\b0 6. Work that fits with the rest of your life\
\
\
However, there are three ways \'a1\'b0follow your passion\'a1\'b1 can be misleading advice.\
One problem is that it suggests that passion is all you need. But even if you\'a1\'afre interested in the work, if you lack the other six factors, you\'a1\'afll still be unsatisfied. \
\
A second problem is that many people don\'a1\'aft feel like they have a career-relevant passion. Telling them to \'a1\'b0follow their passion\'a1\'b1 is no help. If you don\'a1\'aft have a \'a1\'b0passion\'a1\'b1, don\'a1\'aft worry. You can still find work you\'a1\'afll become passionate about.\
Others feel like they have many passions, and aren\'a1\'aft sure which one to focus on. The six ingredients above, however, let you make finer-grained comparisons.\
\
The third problem is that it can make people needlessly limit their options. If you\'a1\'afre interested in literature, it\'a1\'afs easy to think you must become a writer to have a satisfying career, and ignore other options.\
But in fact, you can start a career in a new area. If your work helps others, you practice to get good at it, you have engaging tasks, and you work with people you like, then you\'a1\'afll become passionate about it. 
\b The six ingredients are all about the context of the work, not the content.
\b0 \
\

\b Many successful people are passionate, but often their passion developed alongside their success, rather than coming first. 
\b0 \
\
\
Do what contributes to the world\
Rather than \'a1\'b0follow your passion\'a1\'b1, our slogan for a fulfilling career is: get good at something that helps others. Or simply: do what contributes.\
We highlight \'a1\'b0getting good\'a1\'b1, because if you find something you\'a1\'afre good at that others value, you\'a1\'afll have plenty of career opportunities, which gives you the best chance of finding a job with the other ingredients \'a8\'43 engaging work, good colleagues, lack of major negatives, and fit with rest of life.\
\
Conclusion\
To have a dream job, don\'a1\'aft worry too much about money and stress, and don\'a1\'aft endlessly self-reflect to find your one true passion.\
Rather, get good at something that helps others. It\'a1\'afs best for you, and it\'a1\'afs best for the world.\
\
\
CHAPTER 2\
Can one person make a difference? What the evidence says.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}