{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset134 PingFangSC-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;\red62\green131\blue185;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c30196\c58824\c77647;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The Cook and the Chef\'97Revisited
\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa300\partightenfactor0
\cf2 In the past,\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://waitbutwhy.com/2015/11/the-cook-and-the-chef-musks-secret-sauce.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 I\'92ve written about}}\'a0the critical distinction between \'93reasoning from first principles\'94 and \'93reasoning by analogy\'94\'97or what I called being a \'93chef\'94 vs. being a \'93cook.\'94 Since writing the post, I notice this distinction everywhere, and I\'92ve thought about it roughly 2 million times in my own life.\
The idea is that reasoning from first principles is reasoning like a scientist. You take core facts and observations and use them to puzzle together a conclusion, kind of like a chef playing around with raw ingredients to try to make them into something good. By doing this puzzling, a chef eventually writes a new recipe. The other kind of reasoning\'97reasoning by analogy\'97happens when you look at the way things are already done and you essentially copy it, with maybe a little personal tweak here and there\'97kind of like a cook following an already written recipe.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\cf2 A pure verbatim recipe-copying cook and a pure independently inventive chef are the two extreme ends of what is, of course, a spectrum. But for any particular part of your life that involves reasoning and decision making, wherever you happen to be on the spectrum, your reasoning process can usually be boiled down to fundamentally chef-like or fundamentally cook-like. Creating vs. copying. Originality vs. conformity.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Being a chef takes a tremendous amount of time and energy\'97which makes sense, because you\'92re not trying to reinvent the wheel, you\'92re trying to invent it for the first time. Puzzling your way to a conclusion feels like navigating a mysterious forest while blindfolded and always involves a whole lot of failure, in the form of trial and error. Being a cook is far easier and more straightforward and less icky. In most situations, being a chef is a terrible waste of time, and comes with a high opportunity cost, since time on Earth is immensely scarce.
\f1 \
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Career-path-carving is definitely one of those really really deeply important things. Let\'92s spell out the obvious reasons why:\

\b Time.\'a0
\b0 For most of us, a career (including ancillary career time, like time spent commuting and thinking about your work) will eat up somewhere between 50,000 and 150,000 hours. At the moment, a long human life runs at about 750,000 hours. When you subtract childhood (~175,000 hours) and the portion of your adult life you\'92ll spend sleeping, eating, exercising, and otherwise taking care of the human pet you live in, along with errands and general life upkeep (~325,000 hours), you\'92re left with 250,000 \'93meaningful adult hours.\'94{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://waitbutwhy.com/2018/04/picking-career.html#"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs22 \cf3 \cb4 \strokec3 3}}\'a0So a typical career will take up somewhere between 20% and 60% of your meaningful adult time\'97not something to be a cook about.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
}