{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset134 PingFangSC-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red109\green109\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth21680\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
Apply this to your own career\
\
\
\
These six ingredients, especially helping others and getting good at your job, can act as guiding lights \'a8\'43 they\'a1\'afre what to aim to find a dream job long-term.\
\
Here are some exercises to help you start applying them.\
\
Practice using the six ingredients to make some comparisons. Pick two career options you\'a1\'afre interested in, then score them from one to five on each factor.\
The six ingredients we list are only a starting point. There may be other factors that are especially important to you, so we also recommend doing the following exercises. They\'a1\'afre not perfect \'a8\'43 as we saw earlier, our memories of what we\'a1\'afve found fulfilling can be unreliable \'a8\'43 but completely ignoring your past experience isn\'a1\'aft wise either.\
When have you been most fulfilled in the past? What did these times have in common?\
Imagine you just found out you\'a1\'afre going to die in ten years. What would you spend your time doing?\
Can you make any of our six factors more specific? E.g. what kinds of people do you most like to work with?\
These questions should give you hints about what you find most fulfilling.\
Now, combine our list with your own thoughts to determine the four to eight factors that are most important to you in a dream job.\
 \
   \
When you\'a1\'afre comparing your options in the future, you can use this list of factors to work out which is best. Don\'a1\'aft expect to find an option that\'a1\'afs best on every dimension, rather, focus on finding the option that\'a1\'afs best on balance.\cell \lastrow\row}