{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 What it is\
The best industry for investment is an industry in which participants act rationally. Oligopolies, or sectors where competition is limited to just a handful of companies, work best for an investor when this is the case. When the companies in a particular industry act irrationally\'97by initiating a pricing war, for example\'97destructive competition can be observed.\
How it relates to investing\
To see how destructive competition works in the marketplace, consider the history of the airline industry. In one instance, an airline went into bankruptcy protection but was allowed to continue operating at a loss, thereby hurting the performance of the rest of the companies in the industry. Another example of destructive competition (in the same industry) had its genesis when one major carrier made it a standard practice to offer free airline miles to frequent fliers. The program worked well initially for its creator but became an industrywide problem when other airlines followed suit. Each time an airline upped the ante, offering a better deal in an attempt to lure passengers away from its competitors, the other airlines were forced to upgrade their own programs. While the first carrier to offer a frequent-flyer program likely experienced a temporary increase in sales and profits, at the end of the day the innovation resulted in decreased profits for all.\
What to do\
Closely monitor the industry sector that your investment occupies for any signs that companies are dropping prices in an effort to gain market share. Watch to see how your company\'92s leaders respond. If they are forced to drop prices to match their competition, a reevaluation of the quality of the business may be necessary.}