{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red234\green234\blue234;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c93333\c93333\c93333;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs55\fsmilli27648 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Compound interest is interest earned on an invested amount (principal), plus any interest that has already accumulated on that amount. By paying you interest on your interest, the compound model always outperforms simple interest, which is paid solely on the principal amount. What is more, the benefits of compounding increase the more often it occurs. Interest compounded daily provides a much higher rate of return than its weekly, monthly or yearly counterparts.\cb1 \
\
\
\
\cb3 Now let\'92s look at the 
\i Rule of 72
\i0  as it applies to compounding interest. This rule allows an investor to calculate approximately how long it will take a given amount of money to double. Simply divide 72 by the current 
\i or
\i0  anticipated interest rate. For example, if you anticipate an 8% interest rate, you can expect your initial investment to double in nine years (72 / 8 = 9).\cb1 \
\cb3 The investor\'92s holding period becomes especially important when compound interest is at work. The longer the compounding period, the larger the end amount will be if the interest rate can be maintained. As we have already noted, the frequency of compounding periods also can make a difference in the outcome. The more frequently the account balance compounds, the more often interest payments can be added to the principal.\cb1 \
\cb3 If the holding period is long enough, even a percentage point difference in the total compounded interest rate can be significant. For example, if you invested $10,000 today and you expected to earn 8% interest on that amount, compounded yearly for 20 years, you would end up with $46,610 in your bank account. Using the same scenario with a 7% interest rate, the resulting balance would be $38,697. That\'92s a difference of $7,913!\cb1 \
\cb3 Now let\'92s examine two more mathematical concepts that need to be part of your investment toolkit: probability theory and the law of large numbers.}